.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

We welcome everybody contributing to Nexmo Developer. These guidelines outline how to contribute reports, bug fixes, features, suggestions and content.

### Setup

If you'd like to make contributions it's best if you setup a local version of the project to test. You can find instructions for setting up the dependencies and project in our [README](https://github.com/nexmo/nexmo-developer/blob/master/README.md).

### Report a bug

If you find a bug on Nexmo Developer you can report it to us by [opening an issue](https://github.com/Nexmo/nexmo-developer/issues/new). This will give you a template to fill in the details.

### Suggest a feature

We'd love to hear your ideas about what goes into Nexmo Developer. You can suggest a feature by opening an issue [opening an issue](https://github.com/Nexmo/nexmo-developer/issues/new). You might want to search to see if that feature has already been requested in the [project issues](https://github.com/Nexmo/nexmo-developer/issues/).

## Bug fixes / features

To provide a bug fix or a features please follow [GitHub Flow](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/) (not to be confused with [GitFlow](https://lucamezzalira.com/2014/03/10/git-flow-vs-github-flow)).

We ask that pull requests to be as atomic as the change being made allows and that they describe both what the changes are and why they were required in sufficient detail.

When changes are merged into the `master` branch they are automatically deployed to https://developer.nexmo.com.

Commit message:

Ongoing project to change text from Nexmo to Vonage

.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Vonage welcomes everybody contributing to Vonage APIs Developer Portal. These guidelines outline how to contribute reports, bug fixes, features, suggestions and content.

### Setup

If you'd like to make contributions it's best if you setup a local version of the project to test. You can find instructions for setting up the dependencies and project in our [README](https://github.com/nexmo/nexmo-developer/blob/master/README.md).

### Report a bug

If you find a bug on Vonage APIs Developer Portal you can report it to us by [opening an issue](https://github.com/Nexmo/nexmo-developer/issues/new). This will give you a template to fill in the details.

### Suggest a feature

We'd love to hear your ideas about what goes into Vonage APIs Developer Portal. You can suggest a feature by opening an issue [opening an issue](https://github.com/Nexmo/nexmo-developer/issues/new). You might want to search to see if that feature has already been requested in the [project issues](https://github.com/Nexmo/nexmo-developer/issues/).

## Bug fixes / features

To provide a bug fix or a features please follow [GitHub Flow](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/) (not to be confused with [GitFlow](https://lucamezzalira.com/2014/03/10/git-flow-vs-github-flow)).

We ask that pull requests to be as atomic as the change being made allows and that they describe both what the changes are and why they were required in sufficient detail.

When changes are merged into the `master` branch they are automatically deployed to https://developer.nexmo.com.
