_tutorials/en/olympus/link-facebook-page.md, before:

---
title: Link your Facebook Page to your Nexmo account
description: In this step you learn how to link your Facebook Page to your Nexmo account. This process is validating using a JWT associated with an application in your Nexmo account.
---

# Link your Facebook Page to your Nexmo account

## Generate a JWT

You will need to generate a JWT to validate the linking of your Facebook Page to your Nexmo account. You can skip this step if you have already linked your Facebook Page to your Nexmo account.

In the following command make sure you paste in the Application ID of the Nexmo application you created in the [previous step](/task/sending-facebook-message-with-failover/olympus/create-application):

``` shell
JWT="$(nexmo jwt:generate ./private.key application_id=YOUR_APP_ID)"
```

> **NOTE:** The default expiry time for the JWT is 15 minutes.

Type the following command to echo your JWT:

``` shell
echo $JWT
```

Copy the JWT text to the clipboard. You will use it later to validate the linking of your Facebook Page to your Nexmo account.

## Link your Facebook Page to your Nexmo account

To link your Facebook Page to your Nexmo account navigate to the following page:

* [Link your Facebook Page to Nexmo](https://static.nexmo.com/messenger/)

Select the Facebook Page you want to link to your account from the dropdown list.

Paste the JWT you previously copied to your clipboard into the JWT Token field and click Subscribe. You receive a message confirming the page is now linked to your account.

Commit message:

Procedure for linking FB page simplified

_tutorials/en/olympus/link-facebook-page.md, after:

---
title: Link your Facebook Page to your Nexmo account
description: In this step you learn how to link your Facebook Page to your Nexmo account.
---

## Part 1: Link your Facebook Page to your Nexmo account

Linking your Facebook page to your Nexmo account allows Nexmo to handle inbound messages and enables you to send messages from the Nexmo Messages API.

1. To link your Facebook page to your Nexmo account click [Link your Facebook Page to Nexmo](https://messenger.nexmo.com/).

2. Select the Facebook Page you want to connect to your Nexmo account from the drop down list.

3. Enter the API key and API secret for your Nexmo account.

4. Click **Subscribe**. You will receive a message confirm successful subscription.

At this point your Nexmo Account and this Facebook Page are linked.

## Part 2: Link your Facebook Page to your Nexmo application

Once your Facebook page is linked to your Nexmo account, it becomes available for use by any of your applications. To link the Facebook page to a Nexmo application:

1. Navigate to the [Messages and Dispatch applications page](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/messages/applications).

2. From the list, select the application you want to link to.

3. Then, select the **Linked external accounts** tab from the top navigation.

4. Click the **Link** button beside your Facebook Page ensuring that the **Provider** is **messenger**.

You're now ready to receive messages users send to you on your Facebook Page.

> **NOTE:** If in the future you want to link a different application to this Facebook page, you can repeat the procedure described in Part 2, for the new application.

## Re-linking your Facebook page to your Nexmo account

The link between your Nexmo account and Facebook page expires after 90 days. You can re-link it by performing the following steps:

1. Visit the following page and select the page you want to re-link from the [drop down list](https://messenger.nexmo.com/)

2. Click **Unsubscribe**.

3. When the page is successfully unsubscribed, re-link it by clicking **Subscribe**.
