_tutorials/client-sdk-ios-add-sdk-to-your-app.md, before:

---
title: How to Add the Nexmo Client SDK to your iOS App
products: client-sdk
description: This tutorial shows you how to add the Nexmo Client SDK to your iOS application.
languages:
    - Objective-C 
    - Swift
---

# How to Add the Nexmo Client SDK to your iOS App

Let's get started with adding Nexmo Client SDK on your iOS app!

## Prerequisites

To use the Nexmo SDK for iOS, you will need to have the following installed:

* Xcode 10 or later
* iOS 10 or later

## Add The SDK To Your iOS Project

Open XCode with your iOS project.

You can either install the Nexmo Client SDK via CocoaPods or directly:

### CocoaPods

1. Open your project's `PodFile`

2. Under your target add the `NexmoClient` pod. Replace `TargetName` with your actual target name.

   ```ruby
   target 'TargetName' do
       pod 'NexmoClient'
   end
   ```

   > *Note:* Make sure the pod file has the public CocoaPod specs repository source.

3. Install the Pod by opening terminal and running the following command:

    ```ruby
   $ cd 'Project Dir'
   $ pod update
   ```

   Where `Project Dir` is the path to the parent directory of the `PodFile`.

4. Open the `xcworkspace` with XCode and disable `bitcode` for your target.

5. In your code, import the `NexmoClient` library:  
    **Swift:**
    ```swift
    import NexmoClient  
    ```

    **Objective-C:**
    ```objective-c
    #import <NexmoClient/NexmoClient.h>;
    ```

### Frameworks

1. Download the Nexmo SDK and add it to your project

2. Open the `xcworkspace` with XCode and disable `bitcode` for your target.

3. In your code, import the NexmoClient library:  
    **Swift:**
    ```swift
    import NexmoClient  
    ```

    **Objective-C:**
    ```objective-c
    #import <NexmoClient/NexmoClient.h>;
    ```

## Add Permissions

To use the in app voice features, you should add audio permissions:

1. In your `Info.plist` add a new row with 'Privacy - Microphone Usage Description' and a description for using the microphone. For example `Audio Calls`.

2. In your code add a request for Audio Permissions:  

    **Swift**:
    ```swift

    import AVFoundation

    func askAudioPermissions() {
        AVAudioSession.sharedInstance().requestRecordPermission { (granted:Bool) in
            NSLog("Allow microphone use. Response: %d", granted)
        }
    }
    ```

    **Objective-C**:

    ```objective-c
    #import <AVFoundation/AVAudioSession.h>

    - (void)askAudioPermissions {
        if ([[AVAudioSession sharedInstance] respondsToSelector:@selector(requestRecordPermission:)])
        {
            [[AVAudioSession sharedInstance] requestRecordPermission: ^ (BOOL granted)
            {
            NSLog(@"Allow microphone use. Response: %d", granted);
            }];
        }
    }
    ```

AppDelegate is the best place to do this.

## Using NXMClient in your app

### Login

Create a `NXMClient` object and login with a `jwt` user token. You can read more about generating the `jwt` [here](/client-sdk/concepts/jwt-acl).

**Swift:**
```swift
let client = NXMClient(token: "your token")
client?.setDelegate(self)
client?.login()
```

**Objective-C:**
```objective-c
NXMClient *client = [[NXMClient alloc] initWithToken:@"your token"];
[client setDelegate:self];
[client login];
```

> *Note*: self should implement `NXMClientDelegate` protocol.  

On a succesfull login, The following delegate method is called with `NXMConnectionStatusConnected`.

**Swift:**
```swift
func loginStatusChanged(_ user: NXMUser?, loginStatus isLoggedIn: Bool, withError error: Error?)
```

**Objective-C:**
```objective-c
- (void)connectionStatusChanged:(NXMConnectionStatus)status reason:(NXMConnectionStatusReason)reason;
```

After the login succeeds, the logged in user will be available via:

### Get current user info

**Swift:**
```swift
let user = client.user
```

**Objective-C:**
```objective-c
NXMUser *user = client.user;
```

## Conclusion

You added the Nexmo Client SDK to your iOS app, and logged in to a `NXMClient` instance. You're all set to use that `NXMClient` client in your app, and utilize the NexmoClient SDK functionalities.

Commit message:

More tutorial tidy up and fixed links.

_tutorials/client-sdk-ios-add-sdk-to-your-app.md, after:

---
title: How to Add the Nexmo Client SDK to your iOS App
products: client-sdk
description: This tutorial shows you how to add the Nexmo Client SDK to your iOS application.
languages:
    - Objective-C 
    - Swift
---

# How to Add the Nexmo Client SDK to your iOS App

In this tutorial you learn how to add the Nexmo Client SDK to your iOS app.

## Prerequisites

To use the Nexmo SDK for iOS, you need to have the following installed:

* Xcode 10 or later
* iOS 10 or later

## Add the SDK to your iOS Project

Open XCode with your iOS project.

You can either install the Nexmo Client SDK via CocoaPods or directly.

### CocoaPods

1. Open your project's `PodFile`.

2. Under your target add the `NexmoClient` pod. Replace `TargetName` with your actual target name.

   ```ruby
   target 'TargetName' do
       pod 'NexmoClient'
   end
   ```

   Make sure the pod file has the public CocoaPod specs repository source.

3. Install the Pod by opening a terminal and running the following command:

    ```ruby
   $ cd 'Project Dir'
   $ pod update
   ```

   Where `Project Dir` is the path to the parent directory of the `PodFile`.

4. Open the `xcworkspace` with XCode and disable `bitcode` for your target.

5. In your code, import the `NexmoClient` library:  
    **Swift:**
    ```swift
    import NexmoClient  
    ```

    **Objective-C:**
    ```objective-c
    #import <NexmoClient/NexmoClient.h>;
    ```

### Frameworks

1. Download the Nexmo Client SDK and add it to your project.

2. Open the `xcworkspace` with XCode and disable `bitcode` for your target.

3. In your code, import the NexmoClient library:  
    **Swift:**
    ```swift
    import NexmoClient  
    ```

    **Objective-C:**
    ```objective-c
    #import <NexmoClient/NexmoClient.h>;
    ```

## Add permissions

To use the in-app voice features, you need to add audio permissions:

1. In your `Info.plist` add a new row with 'Privacy - Microphone Usage Description' and a description for using the microphone. For example, `Audio Calls`.

2. In your code add a request for Audio Permissions:  

    **Swift**:
    ```swift

    import AVFoundation

    func askAudioPermissions() {
        AVAudioSession.sharedInstance().requestRecordPermission { (granted:Bool) in
            NSLog("Allow microphone use. Response: %d", granted)
        }
    }
    ```

    **Objective-C**:

    ```objective-c
    #import <AVFoundation/AVAudioSession.h>

    - (void)askAudioPermissions {
        if ([[AVAudioSession sharedInstance] respondsToSelector:@selector(requestRecordPermission:)])
        {
            [[AVAudioSession sharedInstance] requestRecordPermission: ^ (BOOL granted)
            {
            NSLog(@"Allow microphone use. Response: %d", granted);
            }];
        }
    }
    ```

`AppDelegate` is the best place to do this.

## Using NXMClient in your app

### Login

Create a `NXMClient` object and login with a `jwt` user token. If necessary, you can read more about [generating the JWT](/client-sdk/concepts/jwt-acl).

**Swift:**
```swift
let client = NXMClient(token: "your token")
client?.setDelegate(self)
client?.login()
```

**Objective-C:**
```objective-c
NXMClient *client = [[NXMClient alloc] initWithToken:@"your token"];
[client setDelegate:self];
[client login];
```

Note that `self` should implement the `NXMClientDelegate` protocol.  

On a successful login, the following delegate method is called with `NXMConnectionStatusConnected`:

**Swift:**
```swift
func loginStatusChanged(_ user: NXMUser?, loginStatus isLoggedIn: Bool, withError error: Error?)
```

**Objective-C:**
```objective-c
- (void)connectionStatusChanged:(NXMConnectionStatus)status reason:(NXMConnectionStatusReason)reason;
```

### Get current user info

After the login succeeds, the logged in user will be available via:

**Swift:**
```swift
let user = client.user
```

**Objective-C:**
```objective-c
NXMUser *user = client.user;
```

## Conclusion

You added the Nexmo Client SDK to your iOS app, and logged in to a `NXMClient` instance. You can now use the `NXMClient` client in your app, and use the Nexmo Client SDK functionality.
