_documentation/voice/voice-api/ncco-reference.md, before:

---
title: NCCO Reference
description: The Nexmo Call Control Objects used to manage your Voice API calls.
---

# NCCO reference

A Nexmo Call Control Object (NCCO) is a JSON array that you use to control the flow of a Voice API call. For your NCCO to execute correctly, the JSON objects must be valid.

While developing and testing NCCOs, you can use the Voice Playground to try out NCCOs interactively. You can [read more about it in the Voice API Overview](/voice/voice-api/overview#voice-playground) or [go directly to the Voice Playground in the Dashboard](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/voice/playground).

## NCCO actions

The order of actions in the NCCO controls the flow of the Call. Actions that have to complete before the next action can be executed are *synchronous*. Other actions are *asynchronous*. That is, they are supposed to continue over the following actions until a condition is met. For example, a `record` action terminates when the `endOnSilence` option is met. When all the actions in the NCCO are complete, the Call ends.

The NCCO actions and the options and types for each action are:

Action | Description | Synchronous
-- | -- | --
[record](#record) | All or part of a Call | No
[conversation](#conversation) | Create or join an existing [Conversation](/conversation/concepts/conversation) | Yes
[connect](#connect) | To a connectable endpoint such as a phone number or VBC extension. | Yes
[talk](#talk) | Send synthesized speech to a Conversation. | Yes, unless *bargeIn=true*
[stream](#stream) | Send audio files to a Conversation. | Yes, unless *bargeIn=true*
[input](#input) | Collect digits from the person you are calling. | Yes
[notify](#notify) | Send a request to your application to track progress through an NCCO | Yes

> **Note**: [Connect an inbound call](/voice/voice-api/code-snippets/connect-an-inbound-call) provides an example of how to serve your NCCOs to Nexmo after a Call or Conference is initiated

## Record

Use the `record` action to record a Call or part of a Call:

```json
[
  {
    "action": "record",
    "eventUrl": ["https://example.com/recordings"]
  },
  {
    "action": "connect",
    "eventUrl": ["https://example.com/events"],
    "from":"447700900000",
    "endpoint": [
      {
        "type": "phone",
        "number": "447700900001"
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

The record action is asynchronous. Recording starts when the record action is executed in the NCCO and finishes when the synchronous condition in the action is met. That is, `endOnSilence`, `timeOut` or `endOnKey`. If you do not set a synchronous condition, the Voice API immediately executes the next NCCO without recording.

For information about the workflow to follow, see [Recording](/voice/voice-api/guides/recording).

You can use the following options to control a `record` action:

Option | Description | Required
 -- | -- | --
`format` | Record the Call in a specific format.  Options are: <ul><li>`mp3`</li><li>`wav`</li><li>`ogg`</li></ul> The default value is `mp3`, or `wav` when recording more than 2 channels. | No
`split` | Record the sent and received audio in separate channels of a stereo recording—set to `conversation` to enable this.|No
`channels` | The number of channels to record (maximum `32`). If the number of participants exceeds `channels` any additional participants will be added to the last channel in file. split `conversation` must also be enabled.| No
`endOnSilence` | Stop recording after n seconds of silence. Once the recording is stopped the recording data is sent to `event_url`. The range of possible values is 3<=`endOnSilence`<=10. | No
`endOnKey` | Stop recording when a digit is pressed on the handset. Possible values are: `*`, `#` or any single digit e.g. `9` | No
`timeOut` | The maximum length of a recording in seconds. One the recording is stopped the recording data is sent to `event_url`. The range of possible values is between `3` seconds and `7200` seconds (2 hours) | No
`beepStart` | Set to `true` to play a beep when a recording starts | No
`eventUrl` | The URL to the webhook endpoint that is called asynchronously when a recording is finished. If the message recording is hosted by Nexmo, this webhook contains the [URL you need to download the recording and other meta data](#recording_return_parameters). | No
`eventMethod` | The HTTP method used to make the request to `eventUrl`. The default value is `POST`. | No

<a name="recording_return_parameters"></a>
The following example shows the return parameters sent to `eventUrl`:

```json
{
  "start_time": "2020-01-01T12:00:00Z",
  "recording_url": "https://api.nexmo.com/media/download?id=aaaaaaaa-bbbb-cccc-dddd-0123456789ab",
  "size": 12345,
  "recording_uuid": "aaaaaaaa-bbbb-cccc-dddd-0123456789ab",
  "end_time": "2020-01-01T12:01:00Z",
  "conversation_uuid": "bbbbbbbb-cccc-dddd-eeee-0123456789ab",
  "timestamp": "2020-01-01T14:00:00.000Z"
}
```

Possible return parameters are:

 Name | Description
 -- | --
 `recording_uuid` | The unique ID for the Call. <br>**Note**: `recording_uuid` is not the same as the file uuid in *recording_url*.
 `recording_url` | The  URL to the file containing the Call recording
 `start_time`  | The time the recording started in the following format: `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS`. For example `2020-01-01 12:00:00`
 `end_time`  | The time the recording finished in the following format: `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS`. For example `2020-01-01 12:00:00`
 `size` | The size of the recording at *recording_url* in bytes. For example: `603423`
 `conversation_uuid` | The unique ID for this Call.

## Conversation

You can use the `conversation` action to create standard or moderated conferences, while preserving the communication context. Using `conversation` with the same `name` reuses the same persisted [Conversation](/conversation/concepts/conversation). The first person to call the virtual number assigned to the conversation creates it. This action is synchronous.

> **Note**: you can invite up to 50 people to your Conversation.

The following NCCO examples show how to configure different types of Conversation. You can use the `answer_url` webhook GET request parameters to ensure you deliver one NCCO to participants and another to the moderator.

```tabbed_content
source: '/_examples/voice/guides/ncco-reference/conversation'
```

You can use the following options to control a *conversation* action:

Option | Description | Required
-- | -- | --
`name` | The name of the Conversation room. Names have to be unique per account. | Yes
`musicOnHoldUrl` | A URL to the *mp3* file to stream to participants until the conversation starts. By default the conversation starts when the first person calls the virtual number associated with your Voice app. To stream this mp3 before the moderator joins the conversation, set *startOnEnter* to *false* for all users other than the moderator. | No
`startOnEnter` | The default value of *true* ensures that the conversation starts when this caller joins conversation `name`. Set to *false* for attendees in a moderated conversation. | No
`endOnExit` | For moderated conversations, set to *true* in the moderator NCCO so the conversation is ended when the moderator hangs up. The default value of *false* means the conversation is not terminated when a caller hangs up; the conversation ends when the last caller hangs up. | No
`record` | Set to *true* to record this conversation. For standard conversations, recordings start when one or more attendees connects to the conversation. For moderated conversations, recordings start when the moderator joins. That is, when an NCCO is executed for the named conversation where *startOnEnter* is set to *true*. When the recording is terminated, the URL you download the recording from is sent to the event URL. <br>By default audio is recorded in MP3 format. See the [recording](/voice/voice-api/guides/recording#file-formats) guide for more details | No
`eventUrl` | Set the URL to the webhook endpoint Nexmo calls asynchronously on each of the [Call States](/voice/voice-api/guides/call-flow#call-states). | No
`eventMethod` | Set the HTTP method used to make the request to `eventUrl`. The default value is POST. | No
`canSpeak` | A list of leg UUIDs that this participant can be heard by. If not provided, the participant can be heard by everyone. If an empty list is provided, the participant will not be heard by anyone | No
`canHear` | A list of leg UUIDs that this participant can hear. If not provided, the participant can hear everyone. If an empty list is provided, the participant will not hear any other participants| No

## Connect

You can use the `connect` action to connect a call to endpoints such as phone numbers or a VBC extension.

This action is synchronous, after a *connect* the next action in the NCCO stack is processed. A connect action ends when the endpoint you are calling is busy or unavailable. You ring endpoints sequentially by nesting connect actions.

The following NCCO examples show how to configure different types of connections.

```tabbed_content
source: '/_examples/voice/guides/ncco-reference/connect'
```

You can use the following options to control a `connect` action:

Option | Description | Required
-- | -- | --
`endpoint` | Connect to a single endpoint. [Available endpoint types](#endpoint-types-and-values) | Yes
`from` | A number in [E.164](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E.164) format that identifies the caller.§§ This must be one of your Nexmo virtual numbers, another value will result in the caller ID being unknown. | No
`eventType` | Set to `synchronous` to: <ul markdown="1"><li>make the `connect` action synchronous</li><li>enable `eventUrl` to return an NCCO that overrides the current NCCO when a call moves to specific states.</li></ul> | No
`timeout` |  If the call is unanswered, set the number in seconds before Nexmo stops ringing `endpoint`. The default value is `60`.
`limit` | Maximum length of the call in seconds. The default and maximum value is `7200` seconds (2 hours). | No
`machineDetection` | Configure the behavior when Nexmo detects that a destination is an answerphone. Set to either: <ul markdown="1"><li>`continue` - Nexmo sends an HTTP request to `event_url` with the Call event `machine`</li><li>`hangup` - end the Call</li></ul>   |
`eventUrl` | Set the webhook endpoint that Nexmo calls asynchronously on each of the possible [Call States](/voice/voice-api/guides/call-flow#call-states). If `eventType` is set to `synchronous` the `eventUrl` can return an NCCO that overrides the current NCCO when a timeout occurs. | No
`eventMethod` | The HTTP method Nexmo uses to make the request to <i>eventUrl</i>. The default value is `POST`. | No

### Endpoint Types and Values

#### Phone - phone numbers in e.164 format

Value | Description
-- | --
`number` | the phone number to connect to in [E.164](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E.164) format.
`dtmfAnswer` | Set the digits that are sent to the user as soon as the Call is answered. The * and # digits are respected. You create pauses using p. Each pause is 500ms.
`onAnswer` | An object containing a `url` key. The URL serves an NCCO to execute in the connected number before the call is joined to your existing conversation

#### Websocket - the websocket to connect to

Value | Description
-- | --
`uri` | the URI to the websocket you are streaming to.
`content-type` | the internet media type for the audio you are streaming. Possible values are: `audio/l16;rate=16000`
`headers` | a JSON object containing any metadata you want. See [connecting to a websocket](/voice/voice-api/guides/websockets#connecting-to-a-websocket) for example headers

#### sip - the sip endpoint to connect to

Value | Description
-- | --
`uri` | the SIP URI to the endpoint you are connecting to in the format `sip:rebekka@sip.example.com`.
`headers` | `key` => `value` string pairs containing any metadata you need e.g. `{ "location": "New York City", "occupation": "developer" }`

#### vbc - the Vonage Business Cloud (VBC) extension to connect to

Value | Description
-- | --
`extension` | the VBC extension to connect the call to.

## Talk

The `talk` action sends synthesized speech to a Conversation.

The text provided in the talk action can either be plain, or formatted using [SSML](/voice/voice-api/guides/text-to-speech#ssml). SSML tags provide further instructions to the text-to-speech synthesiser which allow you to set pitch, pronunciation and to combine together text in multiple languages. SSML tags are XML-based and sent inline in the JSON string.

By default, the talk action is synchronous. However, if you set *bargeIn* to *true* you must set an *input* action later in the NCCO stack.
The following NCCO examples shows how to send a synthesized speech message to a Conversation or Call:

```tabbed_content
source: '/_examples/voice/guides/ncco-reference/talk'
```

You can use the following options to control a *talk* action:

| Option | Description | Required |
| -- | -- | -- |
| `text` | A string of up to 1,500 characters (excluding SSML tags) containing the message to be synthesized in the Call or Conversation. A single comma in `text` adds a short pause to the synthesized speech. To add a longer pause a `break` tag needs to be used in SSML. To use [SSML](/voice/voice-api/guides/ssml) tags, you must enclose the text in a `speak` element. | Yes |
| `bargeIn` | Set to `true` so this action is terminated when the user presses a button on the keypad. Use this feature to enable users to choose an option without having to listen to the whole message in your <a href="/voice/voice-api/guides/interactive-voice-response">Interactive Voice Response (IVR)</a>. If you set `bargeIn` to `true` the next action in the NCCO stack <b>must</b> be an `input` action. The default value is `false`. | No |
| `loop` | The number of times `text` is repeated before the Call is closed. The default value is 1. Set to 0 to loop infinitely. | No |
| `level` | The volume level that the speech is played. This can be any value between `-1` to `1` with `0` being the default.  | No |
| `voiceName` | The name of the voice used to deliver `text`. You use the voiceName that has the correct language, gender and accent for the message you are sending. For example, the default voice `kimberly` is a female who speaks English with an American accent (en-US). Possible values are listed in the [Text-To-Speech guide](/voice/voice-api/guides/text-to-speech#voice-names). | No |

## Stream
The `stream` action allows you to send an audio stream to a Conversation

By default, the talk action is synchronous. However, if you set *bargeIn* to *true* you must set an *input* action later in the NCCO stack.  

The following NCCO example shows how to send an audio stream to a Conversation or Call:

```tabbed_content
source: '/_examples/voice/guides/ncco-reference/stream'
```

You can use the following options to control a *stream* action:

Option | Description | Required
-- | -- | --
`streamUrl` | An array containing a single URL to an mp3 or wav (16-bit) audio file to stream to the Call or Conversation. | Yes
`level` |  Set the audio level of the stream in the range -1 >=level<=1 with a precision of 0.1. The default value is *0*. | No
`bargeIn` | Set to *true* so this action is terminated when the user presses a button on the keypad. Use this feature to enable users to choose an option without having to listen to the whole message in your [Interactive Voice Response (IVR](/voice/guides/interactive-voice-response) ). If you set `bargeIn` to `true` on one more Stream actions then the next action in the NCCO stack **must** be an `input` action. The default value is `false`. | No
`loop` | The number of times `audio` is repeated before the Call is closed. The default value is `1`. Set to `0` to loop infinitely. | No

The audio stream referred to should be a file in MP3 or WAV format. If you have issues with the file playing, please encode it to the following technical specification:

MP3:

* MPEG Audio Layer 3, version 2
* Constant bit rate
* Bit rate: 16 Kbps (8, 32, 64 also supported)
* Sampling rate: 16.0 KHz
* 1 channel
* Lossy compression
* Stream size: 10.1 KiB (91%)
* Encoded with LAME 3.99.5

WAV:

* 8 or 16-bit Linear PCM
* G.711 A-law/u-law
* Microsoft GSM

## Input

You can use the `input` action to collect digits input by the person you are calling. This action is synchronous, Nexmo processes the input and forwards it in the [parameters](#input-return-parameters) sent to the `eventURL` webhook endpoint you configure in your request. Your webhook endpoint should return another NCCO that replaces the existing NCCO and controls the Call based on the user input. You could use this functionality to create an Interactive Voice Response (IVR). For example, if your user presses *4*, you return a [connect](#connect) NCCO that forwards the call to your sales department.

The following NCCO example shows how to configure an IVR endpoint:

```json
[
  {
    "action": "talk",
    "text": "Please enter a digit"
  },
  {
    "action": "input",
    "eventUrl": ["https://example.com/ivr"]
  }
]
```

The following NCCO example shows how to use `bargeIn` to allow a user to interrupt a `talk` action. Note that an `input` action **must** follow any action that has a `bargeIn` property (e.g. `talk` or `stream`).

```json
[
  {
    "action": "talk",
    "text": "Please enter a digit",
    "bargeIn": true
  },
  {
    "action": "input",
    "eventUrl": ["https://example.com/ivr"]
  }
]
```

The following options can be used to control an `input` action:

Option | Description | Required
-- | -- | --
`timeOut` | The result of the callee's activity is sent to the `eventUrl` webhook endpoint `timeOut` seconds after the last action. The default value is *3*. Max is 10.| No
`maxDigits` | The number of digits the user can press. The maximum value is `20`, the default is `4` digits. | No
`submitOnHash` | Set to `true` so the callee's activity is sent to your webhook endpoint at `eventUrl` after he or she presses *#*. If *#* is not pressed the result is submitted after `timeOut` seconds. The default value is `false`. That is, the result is sent to your webhook endpoint after `timeOut` seconds. | No
`eventUrl` | Nexmo sends the digits pressed by the callee to this URL after `timeOut` pause in activity or when *#* is pressed.  | No
`eventMethod` | The HTTP method used to send event information to `event_url` The default value is POST.| No

The following example shows the parameters sent to `eventUrl`:

```json
{
  "uuid": "aaaaaaaa-bbbb-cccc-dddd-0123456789ab",
  "conversation_uuid": "bbbbbbbb-cccc-dddd-eeee-0123456789ab",
  "timed_out": true,
  "dtmf": "1234",
  "timestamp": "2020-01-01T14:00:00.000Z"
}
```

#### Input Return Parameters
Input parameters which are returned to the `eventUrl` are:

Name | Description
-- | --
`uuid` | The unique ID of the Call leg for the user initiating the input.
`conversation_uuid` | The unique ID for this conversation.
`timed_out` | Returns `true` if this input timed out based on the value of `timeOut`.
`dtmf` | The numbers input by your callee, in order.

## Notify

Use the `notify` action to send a custom payload to your event URL

```json
[
  {
    "action": "notify",
    "payload": {
      "foo": "bar"
    },
    "eventUrl": [
      "https://example.com/webhooks/event"
    ],
    "eventMethod": "POST"
  }
]
```

Option | Description | Required
-- | -- | --
`payload` | The JSON body to send to your event URL | Yes
`eventUrl` | The URL to send events to. If you return an NCCO when you receive a notification, it will replace the current NCCO | Yes
`eventMethod` | The HTTP method to use when sending `payload` to your `eventUrl` | No

Commit message:

Added type:app to connect action

_documentation/voice/voice-api/ncco-reference.md, after:

---
title: NCCO Reference
description: The Nexmo Call Control Objects used to manage your Voice API calls.
---

# NCCO reference

A Nexmo Call Control Object (NCCO) is a JSON array that you use to control the flow of a Voice API call. For your NCCO to execute correctly, the JSON objects must be valid.

While developing and testing NCCOs, you can use the Voice Playground to try out NCCOs interactively. You can [read more about it in the Voice API Overview](/voice/voice-api/overview#voice-playground) or [go directly to the Voice Playground in the Dashboard](https://dashboard.nexmo.com/voice/playground).

## NCCO actions

The order of actions in the NCCO controls the flow of the Call. Actions that have to complete before the next action can be executed are *synchronous*. Other actions are *asynchronous*. That is, they are supposed to continue over the following actions until a condition is met. For example, a `record` action terminates when the `endOnSilence` option is met. When all the actions in the NCCO are complete, the Call ends.

The NCCO actions and the options and types for each action are:

Action | Description | Synchronous
-- | -- | --
[record](#record) | All or part of a Call | No
[conversation](#conversation) | Create or join an existing [Conversation](/conversation/concepts/conversation) | Yes
[connect](#connect) | To a connectable endpoint such as a phone number or VBC extension. | Yes
[talk](#talk) | Send synthesized speech to a Conversation. | Yes, unless *bargeIn=true*
[stream](#stream) | Send audio files to a Conversation. | Yes, unless *bargeIn=true*
[input](#input) | Collect digits from the person you are calling. | Yes
[notify](#notify) | Send a request to your application to track progress through an NCCO | Yes

> **Note**: [Connect an inbound call](/voice/voice-api/code-snippets/connect-an-inbound-call) provides an example of how to serve your NCCOs to Nexmo after a Call or Conference is initiated

## Record

Use the `record` action to record a Call or part of a Call:

```json
[
  {
    "action": "record",
    "eventUrl": ["https://example.com/recordings"]
  },
  {
    "action": "connect",
    "eventUrl": ["https://example.com/events"],
    "from":"447700900000",
    "endpoint": [
      {
        "type": "phone",
        "number": "447700900001"
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

The record action is asynchronous. Recording starts when the record action is executed in the NCCO and finishes when the synchronous condition in the action is met. That is, `endOnSilence`, `timeOut` or `endOnKey`. If you do not set a synchronous condition, the Voice API immediately executes the next NCCO without recording.

For information about the workflow to follow, see [Recording](/voice/voice-api/guides/recording).

You can use the following options to control a `record` action:

Option | Description | Required
 -- | -- | --
`format` | Record the Call in a specific format.  Options are: <ul><li>`mp3`</li><li>`wav`</li><li>`ogg`</li></ul> The default value is `mp3`, or `wav` when recording more than 2 channels. | No
`split` | Record the sent and received audio in separate channels of a stereo recording—set to `conversation` to enable this.|No
`channels` | The number of channels to record (maximum `32`). If the number of participants exceeds `channels` any additional participants will be added to the last channel in file. split `conversation` must also be enabled.| No
`endOnSilence` | Stop recording after n seconds of silence. Once the recording is stopped the recording data is sent to `event_url`. The range of possible values is 3<=`endOnSilence`<=10. | No
`endOnKey` | Stop recording when a digit is pressed on the handset. Possible values are: `*`, `#` or any single digit e.g. `9` | No
`timeOut` | The maximum length of a recording in seconds. One the recording is stopped the recording data is sent to `event_url`. The range of possible values is between `3` seconds and `7200` seconds (2 hours) | No
`beepStart` | Set to `true` to play a beep when a recording starts | No
`eventUrl` | The URL to the webhook endpoint that is called asynchronously when a recording is finished. If the message recording is hosted by Nexmo, this webhook contains the [URL you need to download the recording and other meta data](#recording_return_parameters). | No
`eventMethod` | The HTTP method used to make the request to `eventUrl`. The default value is `POST`. | No

<a name="recording_return_parameters"></a>
The following example shows the return parameters sent to `eventUrl`:

```json
{
  "start_time": "2020-01-01T12:00:00Z",
  "recording_url": "https://api.nexmo.com/media/download?id=aaaaaaaa-bbbb-cccc-dddd-0123456789ab",
  "size": 12345,
  "recording_uuid": "aaaaaaaa-bbbb-cccc-dddd-0123456789ab",
  "end_time": "2020-01-01T12:01:00Z",
  "conversation_uuid": "bbbbbbbb-cccc-dddd-eeee-0123456789ab",
  "timestamp": "2020-01-01T14:00:00.000Z"
}
```

Possible return parameters are:

 Name | Description
 -- | --
 `recording_uuid` | The unique ID for the Call. <br>**Note**: `recording_uuid` is not the same as the file uuid in *recording_url*.
 `recording_url` | The  URL to the file containing the Call recording
 `start_time`  | The time the recording started in the following format: `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS`. For example `2020-01-01 12:00:00`
 `end_time`  | The time the recording finished in the following format: `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS`. For example `2020-01-01 12:00:00`
 `size` | The size of the recording at *recording_url* in bytes. For example: `603423`
 `conversation_uuid` | The unique ID for this Call.

## Conversation

You can use the `conversation` action to create standard or moderated conferences, while preserving the communication context. Using `conversation` with the same `name` reuses the same persisted [Conversation](/conversation/concepts/conversation). The first person to call the virtual number assigned to the conversation creates it. This action is synchronous.

> **Note**: you can invite up to 50 people to your Conversation.

The following NCCO examples show how to configure different types of Conversation. You can use the `answer_url` webhook GET request parameters to ensure you deliver one NCCO to participants and another to the moderator.

```tabbed_content
source: '/_examples/voice/guides/ncco-reference/conversation'
```

You can use the following options to control a *conversation* action:

Option | Description | Required
-- | -- | --
`name` | The name of the Conversation room. Names have to be unique per account. | Yes
`musicOnHoldUrl` | A URL to the *mp3* file to stream to participants until the conversation starts. By default the conversation starts when the first person calls the virtual number associated with your Voice app. To stream this mp3 before the moderator joins the conversation, set *startOnEnter* to *false* for all users other than the moderator. | No
`startOnEnter` | The default value of *true* ensures that the conversation starts when this caller joins conversation `name`. Set to *false* for attendees in a moderated conversation. | No
`endOnExit` | For moderated conversations, set to *true* in the moderator NCCO so the conversation is ended when the moderator hangs up. The default value of *false* means the conversation is not terminated when a caller hangs up; the conversation ends when the last caller hangs up. | No
`record` | Set to *true* to record this conversation. For standard conversations, recordings start when one or more attendees connects to the conversation. For moderated conversations, recordings start when the moderator joins. That is, when an NCCO is executed for the named conversation where *startOnEnter* is set to *true*. When the recording is terminated, the URL you download the recording from is sent to the event URL. <br>By default audio is recorded in MP3 format. See the [recording](/voice/voice-api/guides/recording#file-formats) guide for more details | No
`eventUrl` | Set the URL to the webhook endpoint Nexmo calls asynchronously on each of the [Call States](/voice/voice-api/guides/call-flow#call-states). | No
`eventMethod` | Set the HTTP method used to make the request to `eventUrl`. The default value is POST. | No
`canSpeak` | A list of leg UUIDs that this participant can be heard by. If not provided, the participant can be heard by everyone. If an empty list is provided, the participant will not be heard by anyone | No
`canHear` | A list of leg UUIDs that this participant can hear. If not provided, the participant can hear everyone. If an empty list is provided, the participant will not hear any other participants| No

## Connect

You can use the `connect` action to connect a call to endpoints such as phone numbers or a VBC extension.

This action is synchronous, after a *connect* the next action in the NCCO stack is processed. A connect action ends when the endpoint you are calling is busy or unavailable. You ring endpoints sequentially by nesting connect actions.

The following NCCO examples show how to configure different types of connections.

```tabbed_content
source: '/_examples/voice/guides/ncco-reference/connect'
```

You can use the following options to control a `connect` action:

Option | Description | Required
-- | -- | --
`endpoint` | Connect to a single endpoint. [Available endpoint types](#endpoint-types-and-values) | Yes
`from` | A number in [E.164](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E.164) format that identifies the caller.§§ This must be one of your Nexmo virtual numbers, another value will result in the caller ID being unknown. | No
`eventType` | Set to `synchronous` to: <ul markdown="1"><li>make the `connect` action synchronous</li><li>enable `eventUrl` to return an NCCO that overrides the current NCCO when a call moves to specific states.</li></ul> | No
`timeout` |  If the call is unanswered, set the number in seconds before Nexmo stops ringing `endpoint`. The default value is `60`.
`limit` | Maximum length of the call in seconds. The default and maximum value is `7200` seconds (2 hours). | No
`machineDetection` | Configure the behavior when Nexmo detects that a destination is an answerphone. Set to either: <ul markdown="1"><li>`continue` - Nexmo sends an HTTP request to `event_url` with the Call event `machine`</li><li>`hangup` - end the Call</li></ul>   |
`eventUrl` | Set the webhook endpoint that Nexmo calls asynchronously on each of the possible [Call States](/voice/voice-api/guides/call-flow#call-states). If `eventType` is set to `synchronous` the `eventUrl` can return an NCCO that overrides the current NCCO when a timeout occurs. | No
`eventMethod` | The HTTP method Nexmo uses to make the request to <i>eventUrl</i>. The default value is `POST`. | No

### Endpoint Types and Values

#### Phone - phone numbers in e.164 format

Value | Description
-- | --
`number` | the phone number to connect to in [E.164](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E.164) format.
`dtmfAnswer` | Set the digits that are sent to the user as soon as the Call is answered. The * and # digits are respected. You create pauses using p. Each pause is 500ms.
`onAnswer` | An object containing a `url` key. The URL serves an NCCO to execute in the connected number before the call is joined to your existing conversation

#### App - the application user to connect to
Value | Description
-- | --
`user` | the application(SDK) user to connect to over WebRTC
`???` | more params go here

#### Websocket - the websocket to connect to

Value | Description
-- | --
`uri` | the URI to the websocket you are streaming to.
`content-type` | the internet media type for the audio you are streaming. Possible values are: `audio/l16;rate=16000`
`headers` | a JSON object containing any metadata you want. See [connecting to a websocket](/voice/voice-api/guides/websockets#connecting-to-a-websocket) for example headers

#### sip - the sip endpoint to connect to

Value | Description
-- | --
`uri` | the SIP URI to the endpoint you are connecting to in the format `sip:rebekka@sip.example.com`.
`headers` | `key` => `value` string pairs containing any metadata you need e.g. `{ "location": "New York City", "occupation": "developer" }`

#### vbc - the Vonage Business Cloud (VBC) extension to connect to

Value | Description
-- | --
`extension` | the VBC extension to connect the call to.

## Talk

The `talk` action sends synthesized speech to a Conversation.

The text provided in the talk action can either be plain, or formatted using [SSML](/voice/voice-api/guides/text-to-speech#ssml). SSML tags provide further instructions to the text-to-speech synthesiser which allow you to set pitch, pronunciation and to combine together text in multiple languages. SSML tags are XML-based and sent inline in the JSON string.

By default, the talk action is synchronous. However, if you set *bargeIn* to *true* you must set an *input* action later in the NCCO stack.
The following NCCO examples shows how to send a synthesized speech message to a Conversation or Call:

```tabbed_content
source: '/_examples/voice/guides/ncco-reference/talk'
```

You can use the following options to control a *talk* action:

| Option | Description | Required |
| -- | -- | -- |
| `text` | A string of up to 1,500 characters (excluding SSML tags) containing the message to be synthesized in the Call or Conversation. A single comma in `text` adds a short pause to the synthesized speech. To add a longer pause a `break` tag needs to be used in SSML. To use [SSML](/voice/voice-api/guides/ssml) tags, you must enclose the text in a `speak` element. | Yes |
| `bargeIn` | Set to `true` so this action is terminated when the user presses a button on the keypad. Use this feature to enable users to choose an option without having to listen to the whole message in your <a href="/voice/voice-api/guides/interactive-voice-response">Interactive Voice Response (IVR)</a>. If you set `bargeIn` to `true` the next action in the NCCO stack <b>must</b> be an `input` action. The default value is `false`. | No |
| `loop` | The number of times `text` is repeated before the Call is closed. The default value is 1. Set to 0 to loop infinitely. | No |
| `level` | The volume level that the speech is played. This can be any value between `-1` to `1` with `0` being the default.  | No |
| `voiceName` | The name of the voice used to deliver `text`. You use the voiceName that has the correct language, gender and accent for the message you are sending. For example, the default voice `kimberly` is a female who speaks English with an American accent (en-US). Possible values are listed in the [Text-To-Speech guide](/voice/voice-api/guides/text-to-speech#voice-names). | No |

## Stream
The `stream` action allows you to send an audio stream to a Conversation

By default, the talk action is synchronous. However, if you set *bargeIn* to *true* you must set an *input* action later in the NCCO stack.  

The following NCCO example shows how to send an audio stream to a Conversation or Call:

```tabbed_content
source: '/_examples/voice/guides/ncco-reference/stream'
```

You can use the following options to control a *stream* action:

Option | Description | Required
-- | -- | --
`streamUrl` | An array containing a single URL to an mp3 or wav (16-bit) audio file to stream to the Call or Conversation. | Yes
`level` |  Set the audio level of the stream in the range -1 >=level<=1 with a precision of 0.1. The default value is *0*. | No
`bargeIn` | Set to *true* so this action is terminated when the user presses a button on the keypad. Use this feature to enable users to choose an option without having to listen to the whole message in your [Interactive Voice Response (IVR](/voice/guides/interactive-voice-response) ). If you set `bargeIn` to `true` on one more Stream actions then the next action in the NCCO stack **must** be an `input` action. The default value is `false`. | No
`loop` | The number of times `audio` is repeated before the Call is closed. The default value is `1`. Set to `0` to loop infinitely. | No

The audio stream referred to should be a file in MP3 or WAV format. If you have issues with the file playing, please encode it to the following technical specification:

MP3:

* MPEG Audio Layer 3, version 2
* Constant bit rate
* Bit rate: 16 Kbps (8, 32, 64 also supported)
* Sampling rate: 16.0 KHz
* 1 channel
* Lossy compression
* Stream size: 10.1 KiB (91%)
* Encoded with LAME 3.99.5

WAV:

* 8 or 16-bit Linear PCM
* G.711 A-law/u-law
* Microsoft GSM

## Input

You can use the `input` action to collect digits input by the person you are calling. This action is synchronous, Nexmo processes the input and forwards it in the [parameters](#input-return-parameters) sent to the `eventURL` webhook endpoint you configure in your request. Your webhook endpoint should return another NCCO that replaces the existing NCCO and controls the Call based on the user input. You could use this functionality to create an Interactive Voice Response (IVR). For example, if your user presses *4*, you return a [connect](#connect) NCCO that forwards the call to your sales department.

The following NCCO example shows how to configure an IVR endpoint:

```json
[
  {
    "action": "talk",
    "text": "Please enter a digit"
  },
  {
    "action": "input",
    "eventUrl": ["https://example.com/ivr"]
  }
]
```

The following NCCO example shows how to use `bargeIn` to allow a user to interrupt a `talk` action. Note that an `input` action **must** follow any action that has a `bargeIn` property (e.g. `talk` or `stream`).

```json
[
  {
    "action": "talk",
    "text": "Please enter a digit",
    "bargeIn": true
  },
  {
    "action": "input",
    "eventUrl": ["https://example.com/ivr"]
  }
]
```

The following options can be used to control an `input` action:

Option | Description | Required
-- | -- | --
`timeOut` | The result of the callee's activity is sent to the `eventUrl` webhook endpoint `timeOut` seconds after the last action. The default value is *3*. Max is 10.| No
`maxDigits` | The number of digits the user can press. The maximum value is `20`, the default is `4` digits. | No
`submitOnHash` | Set to `true` so the callee's activity is sent to your webhook endpoint at `eventUrl` after he or she presses *#*. If *#* is not pressed the result is submitted after `timeOut` seconds. The default value is `false`. That is, the result is sent to your webhook endpoint after `timeOut` seconds. | No
`eventUrl` | Nexmo sends the digits pressed by the callee to this URL after `timeOut` pause in activity or when *#* is pressed.  | No
`eventMethod` | The HTTP method used to send event information to `event_url` The default value is POST.| No

The following example shows the parameters sent to `eventUrl`:

```json
{
  "uuid": "aaaaaaaa-bbbb-cccc-dddd-0123456789ab",
  "conversation_uuid": "bbbbbbbb-cccc-dddd-eeee-0123456789ab",
  "timed_out": true,
  "dtmf": "1234",
  "timestamp": "2020-01-01T14:00:00.000Z"
}
```

#### Input Return Parameters
Input parameters which are returned to the `eventUrl` are:

Name | Description
-- | --
`uuid` | The unique ID of the Call leg for the user initiating the input.
`conversation_uuid` | The unique ID for this conversation.
`timed_out` | Returns `true` if this input timed out based on the value of `timeOut`.
`dtmf` | The numbers input by your callee, in order.

## Notify

Use the `notify` action to send a custom payload to your event URL

```json
[
  {
    "action": "notify",
    "payload": {
      "foo": "bar"
    },
    "eventUrl": [
      "https://example.com/webhooks/event"
    ],
    "eventMethod": "POST"
  }
]
```

Option | Description | Required
-- | -- | --
`payload` | The JSON body to send to your event URL | Yes
`eventUrl` | The URL to send events to. If you return an NCCO when you receive a notification, it will replace the current NCCO | Yes
`eventMethod` | The HTTP method to use when sending `payload` to your `eventUrl` | No
