_documentation/messages/concepts/facebook.md, before:

---
title: Understanding Facebook messaging
navigation_weight: 1
description: Understanding Facebook messaging.
---

# Understanding Facebook messaging

Only individuals may create a Facebook Profile. However, an individual can use their Profile to create a Facebook Page for a business.

A Facebook user must initiate communication using Facebook Messenger via the business's Facebook Page. A message from the business to the Facebook user will otherwise be refused.

Facebook Messenger uses its own form of IDs for the Facebook User and the Facebook Page :

* Facebook User (profile) - Page-Scoped ID (PSID)
* Facebook Page (business) - Page ID

The Facebook User will have a Page-scoped ID (PSID) and this is unique for each Facebook Profile. The business can only obtain the PSID of a user when the user sends a message to the business. In Facebook Messenger, the default is for the customer to initiate a conversation with a business.

In order to get started with Facebook Messenger you will need to link your business's Facebook Page to Nexmo.

```partial
source: _partials/reusable/link-facebook-to-nexmo.md
```

Commit message:

Must re-link FB page after 90 days

_documentation/messages/concepts/facebook.md, after:

---
title: Understanding Facebook messaging
navigation_weight: 1
description: Understanding Facebook messaging.
---

# Understanding Facebook messaging

Only individuals may create a Facebook Profile. However, an individual can use their Profile to create a Facebook Page for a business.

A Facebook user must initiate communication using Facebook Messenger via the business's Facebook Page. A message from the business to the Facebook user will otherwise be refused.

Facebook Messenger uses its own form of IDs for the Facebook User and the Facebook Page :

* Facebook User (profile) - Page-Scoped ID (PSID)
* Facebook Page (business) - Page ID

The Facebook User will have a Page-scoped ID (PSID) and this is unique for each Facebook Profile. The business can only obtain the PSID of a user when the user sends a message to the business. In Facebook Messenger, the default is for the customer to initiate a conversation with a business.

In order to get started with Facebook Messenger you will need to link your business's Facebook Page to Nexmo.

> **NOTE:** The link between your Nexmo account and Facebook page expires after 90 days. After then you must [re-link it](#re-linking-your-facebook-page-to-your-nexmo-account).

```partial
source: _partials/reusable/link-facebook-to-nexmo.md
```
