_documentation/vonage-business-cloud/number-programmability/guides/provision-nps.md, before:

---
title: Provision the Service
description: Link your Nexmo Voice API Application and configure one or more VBC numbers.
navigation_weight: 3
---

# Provisioning the Number Programmability Service

Once you have [activated the Number Programmability service](/vonage-business-cloud/number-programmability/guides/register) on your VBC account and [created a Nexmo Voice API Application](/vonage-business-cloud/number-programmability/guides/create-voice-application), you are ready to provision the service. This involves selecting which numbers to use and associating them with your Nexmo Voice API Application.

1. Sign into [https://desktopconnect.vonagebusiness.com](https://desktopconnect.vonagebusiness.com)

2. In the left-hand navigation menu, select the Business Apps > Number Programmability menu option.

    > **Note**: If you do not see the Number Programmability menu option, the service is not yet active on your account.

3. Select one of your unconfigured Number Programmability service instances and click the Edit button.

4. On the "Edit Programmability Service" Page:
  1. Enter a name for the service
  2. Select at least one direct dial number that you will call to access the Nexmo Voice API application
  3. Paste in your Nexmo Voice API `application_id`
  4. Toggle the Number Programmability Service Status to "Active"
  5. Click the "Save" button

  ![Configuring the Number Programmability service instance](/assets/images/vbc/vbc-desktopconnect-edit.png)

> You have now provisioned the Number Programmability service and are ready to begin developing your application. See the building blocks in this section to get started. When you are ready to take things further you will find more in-depth information in the [Nexmo Voice API documentation](/voice/voice-api/overview).

Commit message:

Add list of relevant building blocks

_documentation/vonage-business-cloud/number-programmability/guides/provision-nps.md, after:

---
title: Provision the Service
description: Link your Nexmo Voice API Application and configure one or more VBC numbers.
navigation_weight: 3
---

# Provisioning the Number Programmability Service

Once you have [activated the Number Programmability service](/vonage-business-cloud/number-programmability/guides/register) on your VBC account and [created a Nexmo Voice API Application](/vonage-business-cloud/number-programmability/guides/create-voice-application), you are ready to provision the service. This involves selecting which numbers to use and associating them with your Nexmo Voice API Application.

1. Sign into [https://desktopconnect.vonagebusiness.com](https://desktopconnect.vonagebusiness.com)

2. In the left-hand navigation menu, select the Business Apps > Number Programmability menu option.

    > **Note**: If you do not see the Number Programmability menu option, the service is not yet active on your account.

3. Select one of your unconfigured Number Programmability service instances and click the Edit button.

4. On the "Edit Programmability Service" Page:
  1. Enter a name for the service
  2. Select at least one direct dial number that you will call to access the Nexmo Voice API application
  3. Paste in your Nexmo Voice API `application_id`
  4. Toggle the Number Programmability Service Status to "Active"
  5. Click the "Save" button

  ![Configuring the Number Programmability service instance](/assets/images/vbc/vbc-desktopconnect-edit.png)

> You have now provisioned the Number Programmability service and are ready to begin developing your application. See the building blocks below to get started. When you are ready to take things further you will find more in-depth information in the [Nexmo Voice API documentation](/voice/voice-api/overview).

## Number Programmability building blocks
```building_block_list
product: vonage-business-cloud/number-programmability
```
