_documentation/application/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
meta_title: Application version 2 Overview
Description: A Nexmo application contains the security and configuration information you need to connect to Nexmo endpoints and use the Nexmo APIs.
navigation_weight: 1
---

# Overview

A Nexmo application contains the security and configuration information you need to connect to Nexmo endpoints and use the Nexmo APIs.

Each Nexmo application created can support multiple capabilities - for example you can create an Application that supports using the Voice, Messages and RTC APIs.

![Application Overview](/assets/images/nexmo_application_v2.png "Application Overview")

> **NOTE:** This section of the docs describes [Applications V2](/api/application.v2) functionality.

## Structure

Each application has the following:

Name | Description
-- | --
`id` | Used to identify each application and used in conjunction with `private_key` to generate JWTs.
`name` | The application name.
`capabilities` | Describes the types of functionality this application will support. The capabilities `voice`, `messages`, `rtc`, `vbc`. Any number of these capabilities can be supported in one application. You also set `webhooks` for each capability specified. Nexmo sends and retrieves information via the webhook endpoints.
`keys` | Contains `private_key` and `public_key`. You use the private key to generate the JWTs used to authenticate your calls to the Nexmo APIs. The public key is used by Nexmo to authenticate the JWT in your requests to Nexmo API.

## Capabilities

A Nexmo application can use various APIs, including Voice, Messages and Dispatch, Conversation, and Client SDK.

When creating an application you can specify the capabilities you want your application to support. For each capability you can set webhooks depending on what capabilities you want, for example for an application with an `rtc` capability you could specify an event URL to receive RTC events. If your application also needed to use `voice` capabilities you could also potentially set an Answer URL to receive a call answered webhook, and another Event URL to receive voice call related events.

A summary of capabilities is given in the following table:

Capability | Description
---|---
`voice` | Used to support Voice capabilities.
`messages` | Used to support Messages and Dispatch API capabilities.
`rtc` | Used to support WebRTC capabilities. Typically for use with Client SDK.
`vbc` | Used to determine pricing, but currently has no other capabilities.

## Webhooks

The webhook URLs you provide when creating an application depend on the application capabilities required. The following table summarizes the webhooks:

Capability | API used | Webhooks available
--- | --- | ---
`voice` | Voice | `answer_url`, `fallback_answer_url`, `event_url`
`messages` | Messages and Dispatch | `inbound_url`, `status_url`
`rtc` | Client SDK | `event_url`
`vbc` | VBC | None

## Webhook types

The following table describes webhooks available per capability:

Capability | Webhook | API | Example | Description
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
`voice` | `answer_url` | [Voice](/voice/voice-api/overview) | https://example.com/webhooks/answer | The URL that Nexmo make a request to when a call is placed/received. Must return an NCCO.
`voice` | `fallback_answer_url` | [Voice](/voice/voice-api/overview) | https://example.com/webhooks/fallback | If your `answer_url` is offline or returns a HTTP error code, Nexmo will make a request to a `fallback_answer_url` if it is set. This URL must return an NCCO.
`voice` | `event_url` | [Voice](/voice/voice-api/overview) | https://example.com/webhooks/event | Nexmo will send call events (e.g. ringing, answered) to this URL.
`messages` | `inbound_url` | [Messages](/messages/overview), [Dispatch](/dispatch/overview) | https://example.com/webhooks/inbound | Nexmo will forward inbound messages to this URL.
`messages` | `status_url` | [Messages](/messages/overview), [Dispatch](/dispatch/overview) | https://example.com/webhooks/status | Nexmo will send message status updates (for example, `delivered`, `seen`) to this URL.
`rtc` | `event_url` | [Client SDK](/client-sdk/overview), [Conversation](/conversation/overview) | https://example.com/webhooks/rtcevent | Nexmo will send RTC events to this URL.
`vbc` | None | [Voice endpoint](/voice/voice-api/ncco-reference#connect) | None | Not used

## Creating applications

There are four main ways to create an application:

1. In the Nexmo Dashboard you can create an application with a single capability. You can then add capabilities and update the details of an application created in the Dashboard using the v2 API. If an application has multiple capabilities it will appear in all relevant sections of the Dashboard. For example, an application with both Voice and Messages capabilities will appear in both the Voice and Messages sections of the Dashboard.
2. Using the Nexmo CLI (this is currently restricted to v1 Applications with a single fixed capability).
3. Using the [Application API](https://developer.nexmo.com/api/application.v2).
4. Using one of the Nexmo client libraries (this is currently restricted to v1 Applications with a single fixed capability).

## Managing applications using the CLI

* [Managing application using the Nexmo CLI](/application/nexmo-cli)

## Code Snippets

```code_snippet_list
product: application
```

## Reference

* [Application API](https://developer.nexmo.com/api/application.v2)

Commit message:

Add some words to go with diagram.

_documentation/application/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
meta_title: Application version 2 Overview
Description: A Nexmo application contains the security and configuration information you need to connect to Nexmo endpoints and use the Nexmo APIs.
navigation_weight: 1
---

# Overview

> **NOTE:** This section of the docs describes [Applications V2](/api/application.v2) functionality.

A Nexmo application contains the security and configuration information you need to connect to Nexmo endpoints and use the Nexmo APIs.

Each Nexmo application created can support multiple capabilities - for example you can create an Application that supports using the Voice, Messages and RTC APIs.

![Application Overview](/assets/images/nexmo_application_v2.png "Application Overview")

To illustrate the use of Nexmo applications, a brief summary for creating and using a Nexmo voice application is given here:

1. Create a Nexmo application using the CLI, the Dashboard or the Application API.
2. Make sure you configure your webhooks URLs. Nexmo will call back on these URLs with important information.
3. Associate a Nexmo number with your Nexmo application.
4. Write your web application. This responds on the webhook URLs and may use the Nexmo APIs as required.

Example, an application that [forwards inbound calls](/voice/voice-api/code-snippets/connect-an-inbound-call) to a destination phone:

1. You create a Nexmo application that has voice capabilities.
2. You configure the answer and event webhook URLs.
3. You associate a Nexmo number with your Nexmo application.
4. You implement a web application that responds to callbacks on the webhook URLs.
5. When an inbound call is made to the Nexmo number associated with the Nexmo application, an [NCCO](/voice/voice-api/ncco-reference) is returned on the `answer_url`.

Other types of application, such as those with Messages and Dispatch capabilities, have a slightly different process which is described in the relevant sections of this [documentation](/documentation).

## Structure

Each application has the following:

Name | Description
-- | --
`id` | Used to identify each application and used in conjunction with `private_key` to generate JWTs.
`name` | The application name.
`capabilities` | Describes the types of functionality this application will support. The capabilities `voice`, `messages`, `rtc`, `vbc`. Any number of these capabilities can be supported in one application. You also set `webhooks` for each capability specified. Nexmo sends and retrieves information via the webhook endpoints.
`keys` | Contains `private_key` and `public_key`. You use the private key to generate the JWTs used to authenticate your calls to the Nexmo APIs. The public key is used by Nexmo to authenticate the JWT in your requests to Nexmo API.

## Capabilities

A Nexmo application can use various APIs, including Voice, Messages and Dispatch, Conversation, and Client SDK.

When creating an application you can specify the capabilities you want your application to support. For each capability you can set webhooks depending on what capabilities you want, for example for an application with an `rtc` capability you could specify an event URL to receive RTC events. If your application also needed to use `voice` capabilities you could also potentially set an Answer URL to receive a call answered webhook, and another Event URL to receive voice call related events.

A summary of capabilities is given in the following table:

Capability | Description
---|---
`voice` | Used to support Voice capabilities.
`messages` | Used to support Messages and Dispatch API capabilities.
`rtc` | Used to support WebRTC capabilities. Typically for use with Client SDK.
`vbc` | Used to determine pricing, but currently has no other capabilities.

## Webhooks

The webhook URLs you provide when creating an application depend on the application capabilities required. The following table summarizes the webhooks:

Capability | API used | Webhooks available
--- | --- | ---
`voice` | Voice | `answer_url`, `fallback_answer_url`, `event_url`
`messages` | Messages and Dispatch | `inbound_url`, `status_url`
`rtc` | Client SDK | `event_url`
`vbc` | VBC | None

## Webhook types

The following table describes webhooks available per capability:

Capability | Webhook | API | Example | Description
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
`voice` | `answer_url` | [Voice](/voice/voice-api/overview) | https://example.com/webhooks/answer | The URL that Nexmo make a request to when a call is placed/received. Must return an NCCO.
`voice` | `fallback_answer_url` | [Voice](/voice/voice-api/overview) | https://example.com/webhooks/fallback | If your `answer_url` is offline or returns a HTTP error code, Nexmo will make a request to a `fallback_answer_url` if it is set. This URL must return an NCCO.
`voice` | `event_url` | [Voice](/voice/voice-api/overview) | https://example.com/webhooks/event | Nexmo will send call events (e.g. ringing, answered) to this URL.
`messages` | `inbound_url` | [Messages](/messages/overview), [Dispatch](/dispatch/overview) | https://example.com/webhooks/inbound | Nexmo will forward inbound messages to this URL.
`messages` | `status_url` | [Messages](/messages/overview), [Dispatch](/dispatch/overview) | https://example.com/webhooks/status | Nexmo will send message status updates (for example, `delivered`, `seen`) to this URL.
`rtc` | `event_url` | [Client SDK](/client-sdk/overview), [Conversation](/conversation/overview) | https://example.com/webhooks/rtcevent | Nexmo will send RTC events to this URL.
`vbc` | None | [Voice endpoint](/voice/voice-api/ncco-reference#connect) | None | Not used

## Creating applications

There are four main ways to create an application:

1. In the Nexmo Dashboard you can create an application with a single capability. You can then add capabilities and update the details of an application created in the Dashboard using the v2 API. If an application has multiple capabilities it will appear in all relevant sections of the Dashboard. For example, an application with both Voice and Messages capabilities will appear in both the Voice and Messages sections of the Dashboard.
2. Using the Nexmo CLI (this is currently restricted to v1 Applications with a single fixed capability).
3. Using the [Application API](https://developer.nexmo.com/api/application.v2).
4. Using one of the Nexmo client libraries (this is currently restricted to v1 Applications with a single fixed capability).

## Managing applications using the CLI

* [Managing application using the Nexmo CLI](/application/nexmo-cli)

## Code Snippets

```code_snippet_list
product: application
```

## Reference

* [Application API](https://developer.nexmo.com/api/application.v2)
